# Codebook

## Steps peformed by run_analysis.R

The data is Downloaded and unpacked if the "UCI HAR Dataset" folder does not exist.
For both the trainig and the test dataset the following steps are performed.

1. The activity lables are read from activity_labels.txt
2. The feature names are read from features.txt
3  The feature names are made proper unique R variable names.
4. The features are read from X_(train|test).txt
5. The activitys are read from y_(train|test).txt
6. The subjets are read form (train|test)_subjects.txt
8. The acitivity data read in step 5 is labled "Activity"
9. The feature data is lablead with the data created in step 2 and 3
10. The activity column is mande a factor variable with the levels read in step 1.
11. From the feature data only the columns containing "-mean()" or "-std()" are selected
12. The featurs acivities and subject data is combined into a single data set using cbind

The Two data sets generated by the steps above are combined using rbind into a final dataset containing all the data we need from the test and training dataset.
Since step 3 generated a lot of "." in the variable names multiple dots are replaced by a single dot and trailing dots are removed in the final dataset.

Finaly the final dataset is grouped by subject and activity. Then it is summarized by calculating the mean for all the other columns.
The Result is then writen to tidy.txt.
You find an overview of all variables contained in tidy.txt in the file tidy_features.txt created along with tidy.txt


